---
title: "Books, books, books. #3: As a Man Thinketh."
date: 2018-08-26
tags: ["books", "learning"]
draft: false
---

Disclaimer: this is probably going to be a more abstract/less concrete thought
piece that I attempt to discuss and put into a logical coherent structure.

### The Uncontrollable Mind

Much of our waking hours are spent thinking. Whether we know it or not, to some
extent our mind controls us, we don’t really control it. Meditation is the art
of trying to control or regulate your mind so that it can be used as a tool
selectively, not on 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. However for most of us
reaching such a level of control takes extreme discipline and practice. I’ve
attempted to make meditation part of my daily routine for the past 1.5 years but
it’s extremely hard to do. Much harder than waking up at 5:30am to the gym 3x a
week. So where does that lead us? A dominant thought process.

*****

### As a Man Thinketh

The core premise of the short 19–21 page book is simple, you are your thoughts
and your thoughts are you. Sounds pretty simple yet catchy but it’s a lot more
nuanced than I’ve presented at a superficial level. The book or memo is divided
into the following sections:

#### Thought and Character

Your character is quite literally derived from your thoughts and your
perspective on the events that occur in your life. The key point about this is
that your character is forged by your thoughts in the situations that challenge
you the most. This concept also ties really well into to [Nassim Nicholas
Taleb](https://medium.com/@nntaleb)’s book ‘Anti-fragility’, the concept of
something that gains strength by adapting to situations that might try to
destroy or damage it.

#### Effect on Thought and Circumstances

Your thoughts build your character, and your character ultimately decides your
circumstances. A man is only bound by his circumstances to the point that he
believes that he can change them. Quite simply put, if you don’t believe (or
think) that you can change your circumstances due to your character, you really
won’t. When life presents you with a difficult situation, it is only up to us to
decide how we want to react to it. This may sound like a bit of a pattern, but
[Ryan Holiday](https://medium.com/@RyanHoliday)’s book ‘The Obstacle is the Way’
demonstrates this extremely well. In one example, he mentions a man who’s
factory burns down and is left with nothing. Rather than dwelling on it, he
decides to get to work and restart to build what he had before. His response
further inspires those around him which leads to a much more profitable factory
down the line.

“Let a man radically alter his thoughts, and he will be astonished at the rapid
transformation it will effect in the material conditions of his life.”

#### Effect of Thought on Health and the Body

“The body is the servant of the mind. It obeys the operations of the mind,
whether they be deliberately chosen or automatically expressed”. I can speak
from personal experience that this is extremely accurate. Sickness is usually an
infection of the mind, not necessarily the body. Am I suggesting that you can
think your way out of sickness? Absolutely not. However, our response and time
taken to respond dictate a large part of our recovery. In my opinion, life has
three stages: growth (ages 0–21), maintenance (21–55) and decline (56+). What I
find interesting, is that all of the old & healthy people I’ve had the pleasure
of interacting with, they all have one thing in common: an active mind. You can
see it through their acceptance of new ideas and desire to cherish each moment
of life.

#### Thought and Purpose

Purpose is a tricky topic to define. James Allen describes a lack of purpose as
the path to no intelligent action. It sounds harsh on the surface but I actually
think it captures a lot of truth. I think the most dominant form of this is
shown through people’s attitude towards money. Do you work to make money, or do
you work towards fulfilling your purpose, which makes you commit to creating
value which then leads to money? The difference is quite easy to detect. You can
tell it through the quality of craftsmanship and the end product. I personally
look up to Steve Jobs, not because “he created the iPhone”, but because of his
commitment to a purpose and an ideal of an amazing product and culture. The fact
that every iPhone screenshot or commercial has the time 9:41am with a 100%
battery charge still amazes me to this date. For context, 9:41am is the time
that Steve released the iPhone in 2007.

#### The Thought-Factor in Achievement

“A man’s weakness and strength, purity and impurity, are his own, and not
another man’s”. This is one of those concepts that really does take time, action
and experience to own. In the book “Extreme Ownership”, it talks about how the
best leaders are known to own their mistakes, and in doing so instil a culture
throughout an organisation. It’s so much more easier to blame others than
accepting you messed up, it truly is. However, the strength and ability to go
higher is much greater when you grasp the fact that you are you are the
determinant of your own strengths and weaknesses. The double edged sword to this
rule is that the higher you go, the more vigilant you have to be of your own
self. Success can rapidly fall back into failure or despair.

#### Visions and Ideals

One’s standards should always be set at an extremely high level. Think about it,
your maximum potential is capped off by how much you dream. If you think the
pinnacle of your life is to work at company X for $Y then that’s most likely
going to be the maximum your standards are set to (for the time being). Until
they change, any opportunities which could let you go higher are foregone as
your focus is now on this limited, narrow goal. Sometimes you feel like your
vision is going out of your reach, however that very feeling instinctively
drives you to chase it even harder. You may be criticised for your ideals being
“impractical” or “too theoretical”. That’s ok. Because it’s about being on a
journey to those ideals and ensuring your potential is never capped off due to
an artificial limit.

#### Serenity

I didn’t exactly plan for this to be a full-circle, however the final pages of
As a Man Thinketh are about how serenity is the goal we should all strive to.
With serenity, we have the ability to carefully analyse and act on our
hard-wired impulses and reactions. The ability to be strong, yet calm, should be
the ultimate end goal.

### “Self-control is strength; Right Thought is mastery; Calmness is power.”