
---
title: "Token/Market Fit. What can we learn so far?"
date: 2019-03-20
tags: ["ethereum", "makerdao", "binance", "tokens", "bitcoin"]
draft: false
---

# Token/Market Fit. What can we learn so far?

> The most important feature everyone missed about cryptocurrencies is the birth
> of economies outside of government control

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*Z1jiqgKALCjB88en)

Economies are going to start meaning something entirely different in the 21st
century. They’re going to be physical (countries) or full digital
(cryptocurrencies). In this post we’re going to be talking about the new digital
economies, often represented through the use of a token.

Tokens are a fundamental innovation created by cryptocurrencies. For a lot of
projects, the price of the token and the ecosystem built around it are extremely
crucial since it’s usually the main “business model”.

### Token/Market Fit

Token/market fit is the term used to describe tokens which have:

* Have a clear use case beyond speculation
* Have appreciated in multiples of tens, if not hundreds since inception
* Have a strong community around them

Failing to achieve token market fit often means the price of the token
plummeting to extremely low levels which in turn can erode faith of early token
holders, unless there are other factors such as a clear use case and a strong
community.

One important thing to note is that token/market fit is different from
product/market fit as shown through some examples later on in this essay. A
product can gain traction in the crypto community but fail to capture the value
created by it in the form of a token.

### Projects

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*mOfj4gbiXWYXbIx8)

So how many projects have achieved this elusive goal? 4 exactly. Here’s a brief
explanation of their histories and what qualifies them:

1.  **Bitcoin**: the first token (coin) to be ever introduced to the world. The use
case for Bitcoin was clear: censorship-free digital money. Since its initial
launch the price appreciated has appreciated from close to 0 to over $20,000 at
its all time high. Bitcoin has an extremely large community of developers, users
and investors globally who believe in the values represented by Bitcoin.
1.  **Ethereum**: the first fully developed, turing-complete scripting language on
top of a blockchain. Ethreum enabled use cases which weren’t possible before it.
As a result the native token Ether, has appreciated from $0.30 (ICO price) to
over $1,000 at its peak. Like Bitcoin, Ethereum has a very strong community
built around it and has spawned a new type of financial sector on it which is
gaining traction. It’s also the native currency which allows other developers to
execute computations and deploy custom contracts.
1.  **MakerDAO**: Built on Ethereum, it provides the need to transact in a
stable-currency as dealing with Ether creates complications. Maker didn’t do an
ICO and instead chose to gradually sell tokens over the past 3–4 years in
private deals. In addition, the eco-system around MakerDAO’s stable coin is
incredible. Everyone from wallet makers, financial companies, exchanges and
protocols depends on their stable coin in their projects.
1.  **Binance**: Also built on Ethereum. Its initial use case was to subsidise
trades on their central exchange if you held the token. Slowly Binance has built
more use-cases into the token creating a healthy ecosystem around it. Since its
ICO Binance has netted investors over 200x times their investment. Binance’s
token doesn’t have as strong as an organic community compared to the other
tokens but it has a lot of traders on its platform which in turn creates and
retains the demand for the token.

### What can we learn?

An interesting aspect to explore is commonalities, differences, challenges and
degrees of centralisation all of these projects have. A lot of projects and
investors in the space can learn a lot by studying these projects closely in my
opinion.

#### Commonalities

Tokens and money are backed by one thing, and one thing only, people’s belief.
It’s for this reason that a strong community or champions is crucial for any
type of new currency. Bitcoin, Ethereum, MakerDAO have natural communities which
have supported them over long periods of time while Binance has a strong, loyal
customerbase. The communities which have now formed around these tokens are
extremely loyal for two reasons: the value they’ve created and appreciation of
the asset itself. A lot of people claim price should be a taboo topic but the
reality is if any of these projects netted losses for their early investors they
probably wouldn’t have the type of communities they’ve built up today.

#### Differences

What separates all of these projects you may ask? Well, they’re all radically
different in how they launched. Bitcoin is the most “organic” of them all with
Satoshi mining the first 5% himself and then leaving the project to be governed
in a decentralised manner. MakerDAO is probably the next most organice launch as
it didn’t do an ICO and instead chose to sell tokens under the counter and
market-make their MKR token via their own DEX. Their token doesn’t trade on
major exchanges as holding the MKR token has important governance consequences.
Ethereum is more “centralised” in that regard with over 71% being pre-mined for
investors, the Ethereum foundation and the team. However the inflation reduces
this initial distribution and generated coins go straight to miners. Binance did
an ICO and is the golden-child of the class of 2017 ICOs. They sold 50% of the
supply publicly, 10% went to seed-investors and the remaining 40% is held by
Binance. Binance is the most “centralised” out of all the coins.

#### Challenges

Each model seems to have its own challenge associated with it with Bitcoin
arguably having the hardest launch strategy as it was purely organic and
selflessly motivated. Satoshi has never revealed himself since disappearing and
his coins haven’t been spent. For him, Bitcoin was a political statement against
the large banks and global financial crisis. Ethereum, Binance and MakerDAO were
all started by entrepreneurs looking to bring their creation in the world but
also be appropriately rewarded for it. Ethereum, like Bitcoin, was special in
the regard it was a fundamental new paradigm shift. Rather than just keeping
state of a financial ledger, you can keep state of computation. Ethereum and
Binance’s ICOs were done at opportunistic times where markets were willing to
purchase tokens. However, the challenges in launching a chain and token are
worlds apart. The launch of Ethereum required an entire stack of technical
tooling that couldn’t have been possible without the large organic developer
interest. Binance on the other hand wouldn’t have been able to execute as
strongly on their strategy if they weren’t one of the highest grossing exchanges
in the 2017 bull run. The hardest bit in MakerDAO’s model, in my opinion, is
finding token investors who are comfortable holding an illiquid token with high
technical risk for a few years (Maker launched 3 years after its initial birth)
.

#### Centralisation vs Decentralisation

Centralisation vs Decentralisation is a widely and fiercely debated topic.
Ultimately it seems to be the wrong thing to focus on in currency/market fit
evaluation. The two things we should be asking is their product market fit and
does the appropriate token capture that value. Two projects which I’ve left out
in this essay are 0x and Brave Attention Token. While both have outstanding
product teams, both of their tokens fail to capture the subsequent value
produced. Both tokens (BAT and ZRX) have given less than 5x returns to ICO
investors (which is still good in absolute terms but not relative). Binance is
probably the most interesting token as it only works on Binances’s centralised
exchange and doesn’t fit the traditional ethos of crypto. However they created
large amounts of value and captured enough value into the token. It’s also
interesting because Binance is the first successful payment token. This makes me
wonder whether utility tokens are actually dead or most were too early for their
time in 2017. Maker is only centralised by it’s price oracles but for the most
part is pretty “decentralised”. They have a similar burn and mint model to
Binance where CDP fees are paid in the MKR token then burned. I expect this kind
of “equity” buy-back token model to become ever more prominent.

### Final Remarks

Each token is best thought of as an economy. Traditional economics has been very
limited in experiments due to the costs of failure being famine, death and
poverty. Tokens allow us to experiment with economies with capital being the
only lost resource. 2017 was a very important year for crypto as it was the
first appearance in mainstream media which led to a speculative craze. Most
tokens were scams but that doesn’t mean they’re over. There’s still plenty more
experiments and winners to see than the current 4.
