---
title: "Why write?"
date: 2019-02-04
tags: ["writing", "thinking"]
draft: false
---

Part of my new daily habits is trying to write more. Writing whether its about the news, some new crypto development, my thoughts or any kind of book. To spend at least 10 or 15 minutes a day and articulating your thoughts about a particular topic is hard. For today I thought that I'd simply write about what it means to write. So here I am.

### What inspired me?

Most people view social media as a terrible disease, however Twitter is actually a bit more nuanced than that. Sure you can endlessly scroll to receive micro dopamine hits or you can follow people with tremendous insight and could never learn from before. After finding these people, I slowly realised all of them had some kind of personal blog in addition to being active on Twitter. They are all also successful in their respective domains. Surely there must be some kind of pattern going on here? When we look at whiz kids like Vitalik we think they were simply born that way. However upon further inspection you realise this isn't exacltly the case. 

Vitalik's very first article was about how Bitcoin will be adopted by teenagers (https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/bitcoin-adoption-opportunity-teenager-1330407280/). It's really not anything particularily ground breaking or shattering. Quite simple and is no where near his sophisticated pieces that he publishes nowdays in 2019 (compared to 2012). Through the course of writing for two years you see his articles start to gain more and more nuance. You also see it with other prominent investors and entrpreneurs too. 

### So why?

What is it about transferring what's on your mind onto another medium? Here's some guesses:

1. It breaks the repetitive feedback loops we have in our mind that make us think the same thing over and over again
2. Forces you to structure your thouhts in way which you can examine and point out any flaws
3. Consolidates any information you've got floating in your mind but never really explicitly thought about bringing together

## Looking back

When transferring old articles to this blog I realised the posts I wrote a year ago were very basic and showed the lack of knowledge I had. Most importantly, it took *a lot* of struggle and motivation to put those pieces together. A 500 word article would take a solid 2 hours. Now it's not that big of a deal. The hardest bit when you write is you think you have nothing special in particular. This changed when someone told me the following:

> "You, personally, will never write anything insightful" - a wise 30-something year old man

When I first heard this I was taken aback. But upon further realisation what he meants was that the sum of your experiences that you write about isn't insightful because *you* already know about them. Other people don't, and that's why they subsequently find value in them. So really maybe the art of writing is having unique experiences and perspectives but then expressing them in a way which is interesting and allows people an insight into your experiences. I feel this when I read Paul Grahams essays in particular. There's some kind of connection you form with him and learn a ton from at the same time.

All of these benefits are still up for debate but I know no harm can come out of writing more, and maybe someone, somewhere, will find all of this amusing to ready. Now or later in the future.